# Steps to publish a site

This article will explain what you have to do when you move your site from development into production (aka: publish the site).

## Configuration-files

There are two configuration files that are generated by the installer. These files contain the path to to the library folder, so you need to alter the path into a value that reflects your server-setup.

The files are: `/backend/cache/config/config.php` and `/frontend/cache/config/config.php`.

<small>In the latest versions of Fork these files are optional, so in some cases it can occur they don't exist.</small>

## Globals.php

`globals.php`, which is located in `/library` contains a lot of configuration items. It is generated by the installer. When publishing a site you may have to alter some values. I will discuss the most important options below:

### General

* `SPOON_DEBUG`: see the section below.
* `SPOON_DEBUG_EMAIL`: the e-mailaddress whereto error-mails will be send.

### Database

* `DB_DATABASE`: the name of your database.
* `DB_HOSTNAME`: the hostname of your databaseserver.
* `DB_USERNAME`: the username that will be used for authenticating.
* `DB_PASSWORD`: the password that will be used for authenticating.

### Site

* `SITE_DOMAIN`: the fallback-domain to use, without http(s)://.
* `SITE_DEFAULT_TITLE`: the fallback site wide title.
* `SITE_MULTILANGUAGE`: true if the site has multiple languages, false if not.

### Paths

* `PATH_WWW`: the path to your document root.
* `PATH_LIBRARY`: the path to the library-folder.

## DEBUG-mode

While developing or integration your own modules or themes you will have discoverd that in debug-mode the templates are regenerated each click. This is a feature we only want in DEBUG-mode, so when pushing the site you should alter the value of `SPOON_DEBUG` to false. When DEBUG-mode is false the template will only be generated the first time it is used.

`SPOON_DEBUG` can be changed in `globals.php`, which is located in `/library`.

When the site isn't in DEBUG-mode, visitors will never see an ugly exception, they will see a nice error-page which states you (the developer) will be notified.