# Routing

One of the strong points of Fork is it's ability to maintain very readable URL's. Not only is this userfriendly, it's very interesting from an SEO point of view too.


## Existing file or folder

When any URL is accessed on your domain, the .htaccess file of Fork CMS is consulted. The most important thing it does is checking if the URL which was opened, is a physical location (file or folder). If this is the case, that location is opened. If the requested url is not an existing file or folder, the routing begins, follow the rules below.

## Language

If the URL's isn't a physical location, a rewrite will occur to /index.php which includes /routing.php. This file makes sure that the correct page is opened.

First, it checks if your website is multilingual, in which case a language indicator will be the first slug in the url. This is something you had to specify while installing Fork CMS.

> Multilanguage
> If you made a mistake while installing Fork as a multilingual site, you can simply change this by altering the SITE_MULTILANGUAGE -global in the globals.php file.
> Caution: this will alter the generated urls, so pages indexed by search engines may result in a 404.

> Active languages
> To handle the management of content of different languages, you can enable/disable languages for the frontend. This can be done on the Settings page in Fork CMS.

If your site is multilingual the, first part of the URL is interpreted as a language abbreviation: http://myforksite.local/**en**/mini-blog/detail/fork-cms-ftw

If this is an active language, that language is chosen.

> Zerolanguage
> If your site is multilingual but the the first element is not evaluated as a valid language (e.g. myforksite.local or myforksite.local/mini-blog), Fork CMS tries to determine the language based upon the following checks:
> * If a session that was saved, the language for that session will be selected
> * If a cookie that was saved the last time the user visited the site, the language for 
> * that cookie will be selected
> * If the user's browser language matches an active language, that language will be selected
> * If above checks don't return an active language, the default language (defined in the backend) will be selected.


## Page

After determining the language, */routing.php* searches in a pages-cachefile (which is saved per language: e.g. cache/navigation/navigation_**en**.php) generated by Fork CMS for the url-part of the matching a page.

In our case, a search will start for *mini-blog/detail/pigs-ftw*. If this string is not found, the last slug of the url is omitted (*mini-blog/detail/pigs-ftw* becomes *mini-blog/detail*) and the cache file is searched again. This happens over and over until a page is found. If no page is found, the request will return the 404 page.

> Nesting of pages
> When a page is located in a nested structure, this will be visible in the URL. E.g. in the  standard installation of Fork CMS, the “Location” page is located beneath “About-us”. The URL for this page looks like: http://myforksite.local/en/**about-us/location**
> It's the part in bold that is saved in the cache file.

## Action

If a page is found (*mini-blog*), the next part of the URL (if any) will be interpreted as an action, (in the case of *mini-blog/detail/pigs-ftw*, the action will be detail). If this is an existing action in the module linked to the page, that action will be executed. If it doesn't exist, the default action defined in the config-file will be executed.

The action-part in the url (in this case: detail) will map to a matching [action-translation](translations-and-locale). *detail* is one of the default actions already, but if you're adding a new or uncommon action, don't forget to create a translation for it. Internally, the action-part in the url will be searched for in the translations, and it's reference code will be used to route to the correct action, this way it's possible to even translate that part in the url when dealing with multiple languages.
Example: http://myforksite.local/en/mini-blog/**detail**/pigs-ftp
Fork CMS will browse through all action-translations for this language (in this case: en) until it finds one that's been translated to detail. Here, it'll find the action translation with reference code Detail, which will cause your detail.php action to be launched.

## Parameters

When an action is selected, the remaining part of the URL is interpreted as a list of parameters. In our case we have only one parameter: *pigs-ftw*. What will happen if the parameter(s) is valid or not depends completely on how the action is developed.